README.md, before:

# aa

Cliff Click Language Hacking
============================

Not really a language, as much as a stream of consciousness puking of language desires.

GRAMMAR
-------

BNF                           | Comment
---                           | -------
`prog = stmt END`             |
`stmt = [id[:type] =]* ifex [; stmt]*` | ids must not exist, and are available in later statements
`ifex = expr ? expr : expr`   | trinary logic
`expr = term [binop term]*`   | gather all the binops and sort by prec
`term = tfact`                | No function call
`term = tfact ( [stmt,]* )+`  | One or more function calls in a row, args are delimited
`term = tfact tfact*`         | One function call, all the args listed
`tfact= nfact[:type]`         | Optional type after a nfact
`nfact= uniop* fact`          | Zero or more uniop calls over a fact
`fact = id`                   | variable lookup
`fact = num`                  | number
`fact = "string"`             | string
`fact = (stmt)`               | General statement parsed recursively
`fact = {func}`               | Anonymous function declaration
`fact = {binop}`              | Special syntactic form of binop; no spaces allowed; returns function constant
`fact = {uniop}`              | Special syntactic form of uniop; no spaces allowed; returns function constant
`binop= +-*%&|/<>!=`          | etc; primitive lookup; can determine infix binop at parse-time
`uniop= -!~`                  | etc; primitive lookup; can determine infix uniop at parse-time
`func = { [[id]* ->]? stmt }` | Anonymous function declaration
`str  = [.\%]*`               | String contents; \t\n\r\% standard escapes
`str  = %[num]?[.num]?fact`   | Percent escape embeds a 'fact' in a string; "name=%name\n"
`type = tcon`                 | Types are a tcon or a tfun
`type = tfun`                 |
`tcon = int, int[1,8,16,32,64], flt, flt[32,64], real, str` | Primitive types
`tfun = {[[type]* ->]? type }` | Function types mirror func decls

EXAMPLES
--------

Code            | Comment
----            | -------
`1`             | ` 1:int`
Prefix unary operator | ---
`-1`            | ` -1:int` application of unary minus to a positive 1
`!1`            | `  0:int` convert 'truthy' to false
Infix binary operator | ---
`1+2`           | `  3:int`
`1-2`           | ` -1:int`
`1<=2`          | `1:int` Truth === 1
`1>=2`          | `0:int` False === 0
Binary operators have precedence | ---
`1+2*3`         | `  7:int` standard precedence
` 1+2 * 3+4 *5` | ` 27:int`
`(1+2)*(3+4)*5` | `105:int` parens overrides precedence
Float           | ---
`1.2+3.4`       | `4.6:flt`
`1+2.3`         | `3.3:flt` standard auto-widening of int to flt
`1.0==1`        | `1:int` True; int widened to float
Simple strings  | ---
`\"Hello, world\"` | `"Hello, world":str`
`str(3.14)`     | `"3.14":str` Overloaded `str(:flt)`
`str(3)`        | `"3":str`    Overloaded `str(:int)`
`str(\"abc\")`  | `"abc":str`  Overloaded `str(:str)`
Variable lookup | ---
`math_pi`       | `3.141592653589793:flt` Should be `math.pi` but name spaces not implemented
primitive function lookup | ---
`+`             | `"Syntax error; trailing junk"` unadorned primitive not allowed
`{+}`           | `{{+:{int int -> int}, +:{flt flt -> flt}}` returns a union of '+' functions
`{!}`           | `!:{int -> int1}` function taking an `int` and returning a `bool`
Function application, traditional paren/comma args | ---
`{+}(1,2)`      | `3:int`
`{-}(1,2)`      | `-1:int` binary version
`{-}(1)`        | `-1:int` unary version
Errors; mismatch arg count | ---
`!()`           | `Call to unary function '!', but missing the one required argument`
`math_pi(1)`    | `A function is being called, but 3.141592653589793 is not a function type`
`{+}(1,2,3)`    | `Passing 3 arguments to +{flt64 flt64 -> flt64} which takes 2 arguments`
Arguments separated by commas and are full statements | ---
`{+}(1, 2 * 3)` | `7:int`
`{+}(1 + 2 * 3, 4 * 5 + 6)` | `33:int`
Syntax for variable assignment | ---
`x=1`           | `1:int` assignments have values
`x=y=1`         | `1:int` stacked assignments ok
`x=y=`          | `Missing ifex after assignment of 'y'`
`x=1+y`         | `Unknown ref 'y'`
`x=2; y=x+1; x*y` | `6:int`
`1+(x=2*3)+x*x` | `43:int` Re-use ref immediately after def; parses as: `x=(2*3); 1+x+x*x`
`x=(1+(x=2)+x)` | `Cannot re-assign ref 'x'`
Conditionals    | ---
`0 ?    2  : 3` | `3:int` Zero is false
`2 ?    2  : 3` | `2:int` Any non-zero is true; "truthy"
`math_rand(1)?(x=4):(x=3);x` | `:int8` x defined on both arms, so available after but range bound
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;4` | `4:int` x-defined on 1 side only, but not used thereafter
`math_rand(1)?(y=2;x=y*y):(x=3);x` | `:int8` x defined on both arms, so available after, while y is not
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;x` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary` No partial-defs
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;y=x+2;y` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary` More complicated partial-def
`0 ? (x=2) : 3;x` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary`
`2 ? (x=2) : 3;x` | `2:int` Off-side is constant-dead, so missing x-assign is ignored
`2 ? (x=2) : y  ` | `2:int` Off-side is constant-dead, so `"Unknown ref 'y'"` is ignored
`x=1;2?(x=2):(x=3);x` | `Cannot re-assign ref 'x'` Re-assignment not allowed
`x=1;2?   2 :(x=3);x` | `1:int` Re-assign allowed & ignored in dead branch
`math_rand(1)?1:int:2:int` | `:int8` no ambiguity between conditionals and type annotations
`math_rand(1)?1::2:int` | `missing expr after ':'`
Anonymous function definition | ---
`{x y -> x+y}`    | Types as a 2-arg function { int int -> int } or { flt flt -> flt }
`{5}()`           | `5:int` No args nor `->` required; this is simply a no-arg function returning 5, being executed
Identity mimics having type-vars via inlining during typing | ---
`id`              | `{A->A}` No type-vars yet
`id(1)`           | `1:int`
`id(3.14)`        | `3.14:flt`
`id({+})`         | `{{+:{int int -> int}, +:{flt flt -> flt}}`
`id({+})(id(1),id(math_pi))` | `4.141592653589793:flt`
Function execution and result typing | ---
`x=3; fun={y -> x & y}; fun(2)` | `2:int` capture external variable
`x=3; fun={x -> x & 2}; fun(2)` | `2:int` shadow  external variable
`fun={x -> x+2}; x` | `Unknown ref 'x'` Scope exit ends lifetime
`x=3; fun={y -> x+y}; fun(2)` | `5:int` Overloaded `+` resolves to `:int`
`x=3; fun={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)` | `4.2:flt` Overloaded `{+}:flt` resolves with I->F conversion
`x=3; fun={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `10.2:flt` Overloaded `fun` specialized into int and flt variants
Recursive functions | ---
`fact = { x -> x <= 1 ? x : x*fact(x-1) }; fact(3)` | `6:int` fully evaluates at typing time
`fib = { x -> x <= 1 ? 1 : fib(x-1)+fib(x-2) }; fib(4)` | `:int` does not collapse at typing time
`is_even = { n -> n ? is_odd(n-1) : 1}; is_odd = {n -> n ? is_even(n-1) : 0}; is_even(4)` | `1:int`
`is_even = { n -> n ? is_odd(n-1) : 1}; is_odd = {n -> n ? is_even(n-1) : 0}; is_even(5)` | `0:int`
Type annotations  | ---
`-1:int`          | `-1:int`
`(1+2.3):flt`     | `3.3:flt`  Any expression can have a type annotation
`x:int = 1`       | `1:int`  Variable assignment can also have one
`x:flt = 1`       | `1:int` Casts for free to a float
`x:flt32 = 123456789` | `123456789 is not a flt32` Failed to convert int64 to a flt32
`-1:int1`         | `-1 is not a int1` int1 is only {0,1}
`"abc":int`       | `"abc" is not a int64`
`x=3; fun:{int ->int }={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `2.1 is not a int64`
`x=3; fun:{real->real}={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `10.4:flt` real covers both int and flt
`fun:{real->flt32}={x -> x}; fun(123 )` | `123:int` Casts for free to real and flt32
`fun:{real->flt32}={x -> x}; fun(123456789)` | `123456789 is not a flt32`



Done Stuff
----------

* REPL
* Dynamic code-gen; no seperate compilation step.  Load Source & Go.
* Primitive values; int overflow OK;
* Static typing; types optional at every place.
* Limited overloads
* Overloading ops.  No ambiguity / easy-to-read rules.
* By default multi-arg ops are overloaded.
* Direct SSA style code writing; no 'let' keyword.
* default "x=1" makes a "val" until scope runs out (cannot re-assign)
* Sub-byte ranges?  Julia-like math typing
* Functional; 1st class functions.


Ideas, Desirables
-----------------

* H-M style typing.
* JIT'ing.
* {GC,Ref-Counting}: Ponder both vs requiring e.g. lifetime management (easy by just raising scope).
* No exceptions?!!?  Same as Elm: allow tagged union returns with an error return
  vs a non-error return.  Force user to handle errors up&down the stack.
* Lexical scope destructors.
* Can ask for Int for BigInteger; unboxed arrays.
* Pattern-matching too handy looking, need to have it
* Parallel (and distributed) but also deterministic
* "eval"
* Monads?  i/o, side-effect monads.

lifetime:

* Distributed ref-cnting?  (or Dist-GC?)
* Ref-Counting does NOT given "immediate" destructor execution, but "soon".
* Guaranteed to count down & release before the next instance of exact same constructor constructs?
* Guaranteed to count down & release before the next loop backedge?  Before base of containing loop?
* Built-in "pools" for bulk-remove?  Same as ref-counting.
* Rust-style memory lifetime management; linear logic owner; borrowing; guaranteed death

concurrency:

* Pony-style concurrency management
* CAS built-in lang primitive: 'res := atomic(old,new)'; JMM
* CPS for threads/concurrency;
* not really actors but spawn/fork worker threads, run until they 'join' with parent.
* Transactions-for-shared-memory-always (Closure style)

types and name spaces and nulls:

* Null-ptr distinguished; null/notnull types (e.g. Kotlin)
* OOP namespaces (distinguished "this"; classes; single-inheritance vs interfaces)
* Duck-typing?  Interfaces.  Single inheritance (or none; composition also works).
* physical-unit-types, esp for arrays; e.g. "fueltank_size:gallon", and "speed:mile/hour", with auto-conversions
* Modules: independent shipping of code.
* Elm-style union types

performance types:

* performance types: "no autoboxing, no big-int, no dynamic dispatch, no serial loops?"
* also: No GC allocations (only ref-counting & rust-style lifetime management).
* Runs in "O(1) time"?  Runs in "O(N) time"?
* associated affine-value types: "this int is equal to that int, plus or minus a constant".

>     `fun copyInt2Dbl( src:[]int32, dst:[src.len+0]d64 )...`
> 
> OR
> 
>     `fun copyInt2Dbl( len:int32, src:[len]int32, dst:[len]d64 )...`
> 
> OR
> 
>     `fun slide( len:int32, off:int32, src:[>=len]a, dst[>=len+off]a )...`

maps & parallel loops:

* maps-over-collections; default to parallel
* parallel/distributed collections; deterministic
* maps-with-folds require a associative fold op (and will run log-tree style)
* maps-without-assoc-folds are serial loops: code it as a loop
* user-spec'd iter types; for-loop syntax-sugar

serial loops:

* For-loops with early-exit and Python else-clause

```python
for( foo in foos )
  if( isAcceptable(foo) )
    break;
  else return DidNotFindItError()
```
        
* To detect never-ran vs ran-but-not-exited:
          
```python
    if( foos.empty() ) return foos_was_empty
    else
      for( foo in foos )
        if( isAcceptable(foo) )
          break;
      else return no_acceptable_in_foos()
```

misc:

* embed 'fact' in string: "milage=%(dist/gals) mph".  The expression (dist/gals) is
a standard paren-wrapped 'fact' from the grammar.
* multi-value-returns OK, sugar over returning a temp-tuple
* Extra "," in static struct makers OK: `"{'hello','world',}"`
* Tail-recursion optimization.
* "var" can be reassigned but requires type keyword: "x:= 1"

Getting started
---------------

Download dependencies:

    make lib

Build:

    make

Run checks:

    make check

Launch the REPL:

    java -jar build/aa.jar

Commit message:

Split out 1 stmt from stmts
Tests to confirm full statements in args; final semi-colon is optional.  Prep work for anon struct decls.

README.md, after:

# aa

Cliff Click Language Hacking
============================

Not really a language, as much as a stream of consciousness puking of language desires.

GRAMMAR
-------

BNF                           | Comment
---                           | -------
`prog = stmt END`             |
`stmts= stmt [; stmt]*[;]?`   | multiple statments; final ';' is optional
`stmt = [id[:type]? =]* ifex` | ids must not exist, and are available in later statements
`ifex = expr ? expr : expr`   | trinary logic
`expr = term [binop term]*`   | gather all the binops and sort by prec
`term = tfact`                | No function call
`term = tfact ( [stmts,]* )+` | One or more function calls in a row, args (full stmts) are delimited
`term = tfact tfact*`         | One function call, all the args listed
`tfact= nfact[:type]`         | Optional type after a nfact
`nfact= uniop* fact`          | Zero or more uniop calls over a fact
`fact = id`                   | variable lookup
`fact = num`                  | number
`fact = "string"`             | string
`fact = (stmts)`              | General statements parsed recursively
`fact = {func}`               | Anonymous function declaration
`fact = { [stmt,]* }`         | Anonymous struct   declaration
`fact = {binop}`              | Special syntactic form of binop; no spaces allowed; returns function constant
`fact = {uniop}`              | Special syntactic form of uniop; no spaces allowed; returns function constant
`binop= +-*%&|/<>!=`          | etc; primitive lookup; can determine infix binop at parse-time
`uniop= -!~`                  | etc; primitive lookup; can determine infix uniop at parse-time
`func = { [[id]* ->]? stmts}` | Anonymous function declaration
`str  = [.\%]*`               | String contents; \t\n\r\% standard escapes
`str  = %[num]?[.num]?fact`   | Percent escape embeds a 'fact' in a string; "name=%name\n"
`type = tcon`                 | Types are a tcon or a tfun
`type = tfun`                 |
`tcon = int, int[1,8,16,32,64], flt, flt[32,64], real, str` | Primitive types
`tfun = {[[type]* ->]? type }` | Function types mirror func decls

EXAMPLES
--------

Code            | Comment
----            | -------
`1`             | ` 1:int`
Prefix unary operator | ---
`-1`            | ` -1:int` application of unary minus to a positive 1
`!1`            | `  0:int` convert 'truthy' to false
Infix binary operator | ---
`1+2`           | `  3:int`
`1-2`           | ` -1:int`
`1<=2`          | `1:int` Truth === 1
`1>=2`          | `0:int` False === 0
Binary operators have precedence | ---
`1+2*3`         | `  7:int` standard precedence
` 1+2 * 3+4 *5` | ` 27:int`
`(1+2)*(3+4)*5` | `105:int` parens overrides precedence
Float           | ---
`1.2+3.4`       | `4.6:flt`
`1+2.3`         | `3.3:flt` standard auto-widening of int to flt
`1.0==1`        | `1:int` True; int widened to float
Simple strings  | ---
`\"Hello, world\"` | `"Hello, world":str`
`str(3.14)`     | `"3.14":str` Overloaded `str(:flt)`
`str(3)`        | `"3":str`    Overloaded `str(:int)`
`str(\"abc\")`  | `"abc":str`  Overloaded `str(:str)`
Variable lookup | ---
`math_pi`       | `3.141592653589793:flt` Should be `math.pi` but name spaces not implemented
primitive function lookup | ---
`+`             | `"Syntax error; trailing junk"` unadorned primitive not allowed
`{+}`           | `{{+:{int int -> int}, +:{flt flt -> flt}}` returns a union of '+' functions
`{!}`           | `!:{int -> int1}` function taking an `int` and returning a `bool`
Function application, traditional paren/comma args | ---
`{+}(1,2)`      | `3:int`
`{-}(1,2)`      | `-1:int` binary version
`{-}(1)`        | `-1:int` unary version
Errors; mismatch arg count | ---
`!()`           | `Call to unary function '!', but missing the one required argument`
`math_pi(1)`    | `A function is being called, but 3.141592653589793 is not a function type`
`{+}(1,2,3)`    | `Passing 3 arguments to +{flt64 flt64 -> flt64} which takes 2 arguments`
Arguments separated by commas and are full statements | ---
`{+}(1, 2 * 3)` | `7:int`
`{+}(1 + 2 * 3, 4 * 5 + 6)` | `33:int`
`(1;2 )`        | `2:int`
`(1;2;)`        | `2:int` final semicolon is optional
`{+}(1;2 ,3)`   | `5:int` full statements in arguments
Syntax for variable assignment | ---
`x=1`           | `1:int` assignments have values
`x=y=1`         | `1:int` stacked assignments ok
`x=y=`          | `Missing ifex after assignment of 'y'`
`x=1+y`         | `Unknown ref 'y'`
`x=2; y=x+1; x*y` | `6:int`
`1+(x=2*3)+x*x` | `43:int` Re-use ref immediately after def; parses as: `x=(2*3); 1+x+x*x`
`x=(1+(x=2)+x)` | `Cannot re-assign ref 'x'`
Conditionals    | ---
`0 ?    2  : 3` | `3:int` Zero is false
`2 ?    2  : 3` | `2:int` Any non-zero is true; "truthy"
`math_rand(1)?(x=4):(x=3);x` | `:int8` x defined on both arms, so available after but range bound
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;4` | `4:int` x-defined on 1 side only, but not used thereafter
`math_rand(1)?(y=2;x=y*y):(x=3);x` | `:int8` x defined on both arms, so available after, while y is not
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;x` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary` No partial-defs
`math_rand(1)?(x=2):   3 ;y=x+2;y` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary` More complicated partial-def
`0 ? (x=2) : 3;x` | `'x' not defined on false arm of trinary`
`2 ? (x=2) : 3;x` | `2:int` Off-side is constant-dead, so missing x-assign is ignored
`2 ? (x=2) : y  ` | `2:int` Off-side is constant-dead, so `"Unknown ref 'y'"` is ignored
`x=1;2?(x=2):(x=3);x` | `Cannot re-assign ref 'x'` Re-assignment not allowed
`x=1;2?   2 :(x=3);x` | `1:int` Re-assign allowed & ignored in dead branch
`math_rand(1)?1:int:2:int` | `:int8` no ambiguity between conditionals and type annotations
`math_rand(1)?1::2:int` | `missing expr after ':'`
Anonymous function definition | ---
`{x y -> x+y}`    | Types as a 2-arg function { int int -> int } or { flt flt -> flt }
`{5}()`           | `5:int` No args nor `->` required; this is simply a no-arg function returning 5, being executed
Identity mimics having type-vars via inlining during typing | ---
`id`              | `{A->A}` No type-vars yet
`id(1)`           | `1:int`
`id(3.14)`        | `3.14:flt`
`id({+})`         | `{{+:{int int -> int}, +:{flt flt -> flt}}`
`id({+})(id(1),id(math_pi))` | `4.141592653589793:flt`
Function execution and result typing | ---
`x=3; fun={y -> x & y}; fun(2)` | `2:int` capture external variable
`x=3; fun={x -> x & 2}; fun(2)` | `2:int` shadow  external variable
`fun={x -> x+2}; x` | `Unknown ref 'x'` Scope exit ends lifetime
`x=3; fun={y -> x+y}; fun(2)` | `5:int` Overloaded `+` resolves to `:int`
`x=3; fun={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)` | `4.2:flt` Overloaded `{+}:flt` resolves with I->F conversion
`x=3; fun={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `10.2:flt` Overloaded `fun` specialized into int and flt variants
Recursive functions | ---
`fact = { x -> x <= 1 ? x : x*fact(x-1) }; fact(3)` | `6:int` fully evaluates at typing time
`fib = { x -> x <= 1 ? 1 : fib(x-1)+fib(x-2) }; fib(4)` | `:int` does not collapse at typing time
`is_even = { n -> n ? is_odd(n-1) : 1}; is_odd = {n -> n ? is_even(n-1) : 0}; is_even(4)` | `1:int`
`is_even = { n -> n ? is_odd(n-1) : 1}; is_odd = {n -> n ? is_even(n-1) : 0}; is_even(5)` | `0:int`
Type annotations  | ---
`-1:int`          | `-1:int`
`(1+2.3):flt`     | `3.3:flt`  Any expression can have a type annotation
`x:int = 1`       | `1:int`  Variable assignment can also have one
`x:flt = 1`       | `1:int` Casts for free to a float
`x:flt32 = 123456789` | `123456789 is not a flt32` Failed to convert int64 to a flt32
`-1:int1`         | `-1 is not a int1` int1 is only {0,1}
`"abc":int`       | `"abc" is not a int64`
`x=3; fun:{int ->int }={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `2.1 is not a int64`
`x=3; fun:{real->real}={x -> x*2}; fun(2.1)+fun(x)` | `10.4:flt` real covers both int and flt
`fun:{real->flt32}={x -> x}; fun(123 )` | `123:int` Casts for free to real and flt32
`fun:{real->flt32}={x -> x}; fun(123456789)` | `123456789 is not a flt32`



Done Stuff
----------

* REPL
* Dynamic code-gen; no seperate compilation step.  Load Source & Go.
* Primitive values; int overflow OK;
* Static typing; types optional at every place.
* Limited overloads
* Overloading ops.  No ambiguity / easy-to-read rules.
* By default multi-arg ops are overloaded.
* Direct SSA style code writing; no 'let' keyword.
* default "x=1" makes a "val" until scope runs out (cannot re-assign)
* Sub-byte ranges?  Julia-like math typing
* Functional; 1st class functions.


Ideas, Desirables
-----------------

* H-M style typing.
* JIT'ing.
* {GC,Ref-Counting}: Ponder both vs requiring e.g. lifetime management (easy by just raising scope).
* No exceptions?!!?  Same as Elm: allow tagged union returns with an error return
  vs a non-error return.  Force user to handle errors up&down the stack.
* Lexical scope destructors.
* Can ask for Int for BigInteger; unboxed arrays.
* Pattern-matching too handy looking, need to have it
* Parallel (and distributed) but also deterministic
* "eval"
* Monads?  i/o, side-effect monads.

lifetime:

* Distributed ref-cnting?  (or Dist-GC?)
* Ref-Counting does NOT given "immediate" destructor execution, but "soon".
* Guaranteed to count down & release before the next instance of exact same constructor constructs?
* Guaranteed to count down & release before the next loop backedge?  Before base of containing loop?
* Built-in "pools" for bulk-remove?  Same as ref-counting.
* Rust-style memory lifetime management; linear logic owner; borrowing; guaranteed death

concurrency:

* Pony-style concurrency management
* CAS built-in lang primitive: 'res := atomic(old,new)'; JMM
* CPS for threads/concurrency;
* not really actors but spawn/fork worker threads, run until they 'join' with parent.
* Transactions-for-shared-memory-always (Closure style)

types and name spaces and nulls:

* Null-ptr distinguished; null/notnull types (e.g. Kotlin)
* OOP namespaces (distinguished "this"; classes; single-inheritance vs interfaces)
* Duck-typing?  Interfaces.  Single inheritance (or none; composition also works).
* physical-unit-types, esp for arrays; e.g. "fueltank_size:gallon", and "speed:mile/hour", with auto-conversions
* Modules: independent shipping of code.
* Elm-style union types

performance types:

* performance types: "no autoboxing, no big-int, no dynamic dispatch, no serial loops?"
* also: No GC allocations (only ref-counting & rust-style lifetime management).
* Runs in "O(1) time"?  Runs in "O(N) time"?
* associated affine-value types: "this int is equal to that int, plus or minus a constant".

>     `fun copyInt2Dbl( src:[]int32, dst:[src.len+0]d64 )...`
> 
> OR
> 
>     `fun copyInt2Dbl( len:int32, src:[len]int32, dst:[len]d64 )...`
> 
> OR
> 
>     `fun slide( len:int32, off:int32, src:[>=len]a, dst[>=len+off]a )...`

maps & parallel loops:

* maps-over-collections; default to parallel
* parallel/distributed collections; deterministic
* maps-with-folds require a associative fold op (and will run log-tree style)
* maps-without-assoc-folds are serial loops: code it as a loop
* user-spec'd iter types; for-loop syntax-sugar

serial loops:

* For-loops with early-exit and Python else-clause

```python
for( foo in foos )
  if( isAcceptable(foo) )
    break;
  else return DidNotFindItError()
```
        
* To detect never-ran vs ran-but-not-exited:
          
```python
    if( foos.empty() ) return foos_was_empty
    else
      for( foo in foos )
        if( isAcceptable(foo) )
          break;
      else return no_acceptable_in_foos()
```

misc:

* embed 'fact' in string: "milage=%(dist/gals) mph".  The expression (dist/gals) is
a standard paren-wrapped 'fact' from the grammar.
* multi-value-returns OK, sugar over returning a temp-tuple
* Extra "," in static struct makers OK: `"{'hello','world',}"`
* Tail-recursion optimization.
* "var" can be reassigned but requires type keyword: "x:= 1"

Getting started
---------------

Download dependencies:

    make lib

Build:

    make

Run checks:

    make check

Launch the REPL:

    java -jar build/aa.jar
